Israel's Army is calling on residents of
gaza's southern city of Rafa to evacuate
to a humanitarian area ahead of a
possible offensive the Israel Defense
Forces say people in Rafa's East should
move to a refugee camp west of Han Yunis
on the coast more than 1 million
displaced Palestinians have taken
shelter in Rafa since the war broke out
now despite growing alarm over an
assault Israel has said that an
offensive there is key to eliminating
Hamas in the wake of the October the 7th
Terror
attacks Let's cross straight to DW
correspondent Rebecca RS who joins us
now from Jerusalem hi Rebecca tell us
more about what's going on in Rafa right
now well Anya we had conf confirmation
from the Israeli military just a little
while ago to say that indeed this
evacuation order was beginning to be
carried out just uh shortly before
coming on air we were told that the
Flyers that is the the part of the
process of these evacuation orders had
been dropped over the area uh advising
the citizens there to evacuate that area
that Eastern Area this is not an entire
evacuation of uh the whole Rafa area but
it's what they're calling a limited
scope operation so we're seeing that
Eastern part the very corner of Rafa
down by the Israeli and Egyptian border
that is the area that is being asked to
move on they're being asked to move to
to an area a humanitarian area that has
been expanded uh an area called alasi
but also that will reach areas of deala
and Han yunas uh now the Israeli
military say that there's a field
hospital at least one if not more field
hospitals in that area being set up and
there will be more humanitarian Aid uh
and services there provided for people
who are going to be evacuating there uh
of course we've seen these evacuation
orders and how they've been carried out
in the past and many people of course
have been saying for weeks that they
don't want to evacuate again they don't
want to leave this rougher area again
many have evacuated several times
already from other parts of the Gaza
Strip and they're exhausted nor do they
necessarily trust that they will be out
of Harm's Way we have seen in the past
that some of these evacuation areas have
also been uh you know targeted uh in in
strike so people fearing very very
nervous about what's happening they're
being asked to do in Rafa that's about
all we know at the moment it should
affect about 100,000 people that's the
other thing that the Israeli military
said this morning that they're looking
to move around about 100,000 people on
you all right Rebecca stay with us we're
going to take a look at what's been
happening with the ceasefire talks uh
between Israel and Hamas we'll come
right back to
you these Israeli protesters are
demanding their government push on with
its plan for a military operation in Rua
in southern Gaza many of them are
relatives of soldiers killed in the war
they believe a RAR incursion is the best
way to pressure Hamas to release the
Israeli hostages it still
holds visiting troops in the central
Gaza Strip Israeli defense minister yav
Galant indicated that he agrees with the
protesters there are concerning signals
that Hamas is not planning to accept any
deal or agreement with
us this means an operation in Rafa and
in the entire Gaza Strip in the very
near
future galant's sentiments were echoed
in a video message from Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu capitulating to hamas's
demands would be a terrible defeat for
Israel it would be a great victory for
Hamas Iran and the excess of evil it
would show great weakness to our friends
and enemies
bring the next War closer and push the
next peace agreement further
away but outside netanyahu's office in
Jerusalem dozens of protesters made it
clear that they don't share his
feelings we are calling for um saying
yes to the deal uh to the hostage uh
release deal to release as many hostages
as we can while they're still
alive the hostages are there for 212
days the deal we are talking now about
about now is a humanitarian deal it's
for elderly people it's for sick people
it's for young women and they can't last
there anymore we know that hostages are
dying all the time and if we don't
release them now we don't know who we'll
have to release later a temporary truce
could also avert a humanitarian disaster
across the border in Gaza the UN says
parts of the strip are already
experiencing
famine earlier on Sunday Israel closed
km Shalom a key border crossing used by
Aid convoys after Hamas militants
attacked
it all right we're back with Rebecca RS
in Jerusalem so Rebecca if we look at
the situation no sign of any
breakthrough in the ceasefire talks you
were telling us about what's happening
with the evacuations earlier does all of
this mean that an offensive is
imminent well it certainly does look
that way Ana that is what the Israeli
government and military have been saying
for some time now that if this deal
wasn't able to come to fruition that
they would be going into ruer in fact
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu say he
he would direct the Army to go into Rafa
whether or not there was a deal now we
know Hamas are not willing to accept a
deal that doesn't include something that
would move towards a permanent ceasefire
Israel is saying that there is
absolutely no way they will agree to
offering a permanent ceasefire in
exchange for a deal so we are at that
stalemate I think it's wrong to say the
talks have completed completely
collapsed the CIA Chief the US CIA Chief
is headed to Doha to try to continue
those talks but yes we definitely are at
a at a point that we have been hearing
about and you know many people have been
fearing would go ahead and happen and
that does seem to be what we're looking
at what we're facing now that these
talks do seem to have been uh stalled
once more and agreement cannot be
reached it certainly looks like this
Rafer offensive could be imminent as the
Israeli military say they will do it in
stages uh we yet to see what what that
looks like Ana and I wanted to ask you
about the the closing of the Southern
Kem Shalom Crossing what more can you
tell us about
that well the Kum Shalom uh Crossing was
the IDE of say was targeted last night
uh earlier in the evening last night
three soldiers were in fact killed in
that in those strikes I believe there
were about 10 uh projectiles fired
that's the estimate and there were
retaliatory strikes the fire the fire
came from the Israeli military is saying
it's coming that came from the Rafa area
and that area was targeted we know that
12 people were killed in strikes in that
Rafa area last night and indeed that
caram Shalom Crossing was closed we have
no more information on when that might
reopen but it is in the zone that is
being evacuated so it's unlikely to open
anytime soon the Israeli military saying
that they've they're working on other
borders and it will not affect uh the am
the amount of Aid coming into Gaza
Rebecca thank you that's DW's Rebecca
Ritter's reporting from jur
Jerusalem now Israel has ordered the
closure of the local offices of the
Qatari broadcaster Al jazer the channel
has also been removed by Israel's main
cable TV and satellite providers Israel
is accusing the channel of harming its
security Al jazer has rejected the
allegations Israeli authorities
confiscate broadcas equipment from the
Qatari Network Al jazer at this hotel in
East
Jerusalem the international
broadcaster's local office is in one of
the rooms
here now the room is
closed Israel's main cable and satellite
providers took Al jazer off air shortly
after the order to cease operations came
into
Force the decision was that culmination
of a fight between the broadcaster and
prime minister Benjamin netanyahu's
government aler reported harmed Israel
security and incited against IDF
soldiers it's time to remove the trumpet
of Hamas from our
country the Network's bureau chief in
Israel and the Palestinian territories
valid Amari says the reasons behind the
decision are political this is very
dangerous decision against the jazer and
against the international media at all
because at least it's clear that they
want to uh prevent from any others to
know what is happening in this war in
the in Gaza inside Israel in the West
Bank the broadcaster legal team is
working on a potential
response the ban on Al jazer operations
in Israel threatens to heighten tensions
between Israel and
Qatar Doha has played a key role in
mediating efforts to secure a cire in
Gaza Israel has begun marking Holocaust
Remembrance Day with a ceremony at
yadvashem the country's national
Holocaust Memorial prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu and president Isaac
herzo both spoke at the event some six
million European Jews were
systematically murdered by Nazi Germany
and its collaborators during the
Holocaust